Env setup guides (#2848)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/guides/best-practices/environment-setup/1-env-guide-overview.md

:::

### How many environments do I really need?

Environments define the way that dbt will execute your code, including

- the **version of dbt** that will run.
- the **version of your code** to be executed.
- the **connection information** for your warehouse.
- In dbt Cloud, there are **two types of environments:**
  - **Development** - the environment settings in which you work in the IDE on a development branch.
  - **Deployment** - the environment settings in which a dbt Cloud job runs.

In this guide, we’re going to focus on **deployment environments**, which determine how your project is executed when a **dbt Cloud job executes**.

Depending on your desired outcome, the number of deployment environments in your dbt Cloud Project will vary! Let’s dive in to see how many deployment environments works best for you!

| Setup option | Works well if you | Relative complexity level  |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | One deployment environment | - only scheduled runs for one set of data object - development branches are merged directly to main | Low |

Reviewer: formatting is off here, both bullets are on the same line

| Many Deployment Environments | - feature branches move through several promotion stages | High |

> **One deployment environment** We usually recommended folks start with the basics; having one deployment environment is usually the simplest and most maintainable approach to start. This approach works well if:

Reviewer: Can we add a newline after **One deployment environment**

- You only need to have **scheduled jobs running in a single environment** within your data warehouse.
- You use a **single primary branch** and follow a direct promotion (**Dev —> Prod**) strategy

> With this option, you can manage your production deployments and your **[Slim CI jobs](docs/deploy/cloud-ci-job)** to ensure code integrity in one single deployment environment!

Reviewer: I'm not sure I follow this sentence

Reviewer: Also... I think we can kill some of the exclamation points (there are a lot of them)

Author: took a stab at a rewrite

Author: and have exclaimed less

> **Many deployment environments** This approach adds a bit more complexity and may slow down the development process, but adds a layer of security that is often worth the tradeoff. This approach works well if:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Many deployment environments** This approach adds a bit more complexity and may slow down the development process, but adds a layer of security that can be worth the tradeoff. This approach works well if:
```

- Your organization maintains **several long-lived git branches** to control how and when changes are tested and promoted to production.

>   - Many orgs follow a **Dev —> QA —>  Prod release cycle** — if that sounds like your org, this approach is probably right for you!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Some orgs follow a **Dev —> QA —>  Prod release cycle** — if that sounds like your org, this approach is probably right for you!
```

> - The **output of your dbt project is an input to other systems**, and you need to test and validate any changes in a pre-production environment.

Reviewer: In the one environment approach, the CI job is like a pre-prod environment.. can we distinguish between that level of testing and having multiple environments?

---
title: "dbt Cloud environment best practices"
id: 1-env-guide-overview
description: Learn how to configure environments in dbt Cloud.
displayText: "dbt Cloud environment best practices"
hoverSnippet: Learn how to configure environments in dbt Cloud.
---

> *How do I manage environments in my dbt Cloud project? How many do I need?*
>

> > *How does my data warehouse structure map to environments in dbt Cloud?*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> *How does my <Term id="data-warehouse" /> structure map to environments in dbt Cloud?*
```

Add glossary term linking; good for SEO

>
> *What do git branches have to do with my dbt Cloud environments?*
>

If these questions keep you up at night, you’ve come to the right place! When it comes to managing your dbt Cloud environments, there is not a one-size-fits-all solution for all teams. In this guide we’ll walk you through a few environment architecture options for dbt Cloud that we’d recommend, and hopefully you find an option that works for you.

## Learning goals

This guide has three main goals:

- Provide our recommendations on managing dbt Cloud environments
- Illustrate these recommendations with comprehensive examples
- At each stage, explain *why* we recommend the approach that we do, so that you're equipped to decide when and where to deviate from these recommendations to better fit your organization’s unique needs

:::info
☁️ This guide focuses on architecture for **dbt Cloud**. However, similar principles apply for developers using dbt Core. Before diving into this guide we recommend taking a look at our **[dbt Cloud environments](docs/collaborate/environments/dbt-cloud-environments)** page for more context.

:::

### How many environments do I really need?

> Environments define the way that dbt will execute your code, including

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Environments define the way that dbt will execute your code, including:
```

> - the **version of dbt** that will run.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The **version of dbt** that will run.
```

> - the **version of your code** to be executed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The **version of your code** to be executed.
```

> - the **connection information** for your warehouse.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The **connection information** for your warehouse.
```

- In dbt Cloud, there are **two types of environments:**

>   - **Development** - the environment settings in which you work in the IDE on a development branch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - **Development** — the environment settings in which you work in the IDE on a development branch.
```

>   - **Deployment** - the environment settings in which a dbt Cloud job runs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - **Deployment** — the environment settings in which a dbt Cloud job runs.
```

In this guide, we’re going to focus on **deployment environments**, which determine how your project is executed when a **dbt Cloud job executes**.

> Depending on your desired outcome, the number of deployment environments in your dbt Cloud Project will vary. Let’s dive in to see how many deployment environments works best for you.

Reviewer 2: I think this paragraph should explain that there are basically two options folks can take: either one deployment or many, and they vary on your git strategies and technical competencies. The final sentence "Let's dive in to see how many deployment environments work best for you" I don't think makes a ton of sense with the table below.

Reviewer 2: Maybe like "We provide a high overview of how these two deployment strategies work, but use the separate sections of this guide to get a deep-dive into how these setups differ and work."

Author: rewritten!

| Setup option | Works well if you | Relative complexity level  |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | One deployment environment | - only scheduled runs for one set of data object - development branches are merged directly to main | Low |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| One deployment environment | - only scheduled runs for one set of data objects <br /> - development branches are merged directly to main | Low |
```

Add line break for bullets

> | Many Deployment Environments | - feature branches move through several promotion stages | High |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Many deployment environments | - feature branches move through several promotion stages | High |
```

consistent capitalization

> **One deployment environment** 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### TL;DR — One deployment environment
```

We usually recommended folks start with the basics; having one deployment environment is usually the simplest and most maintainable approach to start. This approach works well if:

- You only need to have **scheduled jobs running in a single environment** within your data warehouse.
- You use a **single primary branch** and follow a direct promotion (**Dev —> Prod**) strategy

With this option, your production jobs and your [Slim CI jobs](docs/deploy/cloud-ci-job) that ensure code integrity are managed within one single deployment environment.

> **Many deployment environments** 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### TL;DR — Many deployment environments
```

This approach adds a bit more complexity and may slow down the development process, but adds a layer of security that can be worth the tradeoff. This approach works well if:

- Your organization maintains **several long-lived git branches** to control how and when changes are tested and promoted to production.
  - Some orgs follow a **Dev —> QA —>  Prod release cycle** — if that sounds like your org, this approach is probably right for you.

> - The **output of your dbt project is an input to other systems**, and you need to test and validate any changes in a pre-production environment.

Reviewer 2: Can you give an example here where a dbt project is an input to other systems, so the sentence reads, "...is an input other systems, such as _____, and you need to test and validate any changes...". I think that can help contextualize and solidify this bullet.

Author: @kbrock91 @graciegoheen i think this was something written in your original draft -- do you have an example here that could help clarify this bullet point?

> The two options are explored in more details below, including the benefits, trade-offs, the steps required to implement the setup in dbt Cloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The two options are explored in more detail in the following sections, including the benefits, trade-offs, the steps required to implement the setup in dbt Cloud.
```
